Improve docs about Persistent/Ephemeral/Asynchronous storage type description (#1428)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/end-user-guide/proc_using-different-types-of-storage.adoc

.Persistent storage

This kind of storage gives you an ability to store your changes directly in the mounted Persistent Volume. In this case your changes will be totally safe and Kubernetes infrastructure takes care of it (storage backend in particular), but the price for that is slow I/O, especially with a huge amount of small files. For example, some NodeJS projects may have many dependencies and node_modules is filled with thousands of small files.  

> Speed of I/O can be various in different environment configuration, and depends on Storage Classes configured in your environment.More details can be reached here: link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/[Storage Classes]

Reviewer: I would remove `.More details can be reached here: link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/[Storage Classes]` and add the link to the Storage Classes in the previous sentence.  Also maybe worth outlining it as a NOTE:

NOTE: Speed of I/O varies depending on the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/[Storage Classes] configured in the environment

Author: done

> Speed of I/O can be various in different environment configuration, and depends on Storage Classes configured in your environment.More details can be reached here: link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/[Storage Classes]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: Speed of I/O varies depending on the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/[Storage Classes] configured in the environment.
```

.Ephemeral Storage

> With this kind of storage, files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[emptyDir] volume. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever.  This means that all the changes will be lost once workspace is stopped or restarted for any reason).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this kind of storage, files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[emptyDir] volume. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever. This means that all the changes will be lost once the workspace is stopped or restarted for any reason.
```

> With this kind of storage files are mounted to `emptyDir`. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever.  This means that you lose all your changes if you stop your workspace (or workspace pod restarts for any reason). Here more about `emptyDir`:link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[Volumes:emptyDir]

Reviewer: I would remove - `Here more about `emptyDir`:link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[Volumes:emptyDir]`

and add the link to the emptyDir to the original sentence:

`With this kind of storage files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[`emptyDir`] volume.`

Author: done

> With this kind of storage files are mounted to `emptyDir`. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever.  This means that you lose all your changes if you stop your workspace (or workspace pod restarts for any reason). Here more about `emptyDir`:link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[Volumes:emptyDir]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this kind of storage, files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[emptyDir] volume. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever.  This means that all the changes will be lost once workspace is stopped or restarted for any reason).
```

> WARNING: In order to save the changes, one must commit and push to the remote before stopping an ephemeral workspace. Otherwise, all the changes will be lost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: In order to save the changes, one must commit and push to the remote before stopping an ephemeral workspace. Otherwise, all the changes will be lost.
```

.Ephemeral Storage

> With this kind of storage, files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[emptyDir] volume. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever. This means that all the changes will be lost once the workspace is stopped or restarted for any reason.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this kind of storage, files are mounted to the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir[`emptyDir`] volume. As the name says, it is initially empty. When a Pod is removed from a node for any reason, the data in the `emptyDir` is deleted forever. This means that all the changes will be lost once the workspace is stopped or restarted for any reason.
```

> WARNING: In order to save the changes, one must commit and push to the remote before stopping an ephemeral workspace. Otherwise, all the changes will be lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
WARNING: To save the changes, commit and push to the remote before stopping an ephemeral workspace. Otherwise, all the changes will be lost.
```

 persistVolumes: ‘false’
----

> === Comparison table between I/O of  Ephemeral (`emptyDir`) vs  Persitent (`EBS` more about link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#aws-ebs[AWS EBS])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Comparison table between I/O of Ephemeral (`emptyDir`) vs Persitent (link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#aws-ebs[AWS EBS])
```
I would remove '`EBS` more about' from the sentence

[cols="3", options="header"]
|===
|Command
|Ephemeral
|Persitent

|Clone  Eclipse Che
|0m 19s
|1m 26s

> |Generate 1000 random files

Reviewer: Looks interesting - how 1000 random files were generated for the synthetic test ?

Author: ```
for n in {1..1000}; do
    dd if=/dev/urandom of=file$( printf %03d "$n" ) bs=1 count=$(( RANDOM + 1024 ))
done
```

|1m 12s
|44m 53s
|===

.Asynchronous storage (Experimental)

> This is a combination of the above two. The initial workspace container will mount an emptyDir, however  your changes will be restored on workspace start and a backup is performed on workspace stop. This storage type also offers fast I/O (similar to an ephemeral mode) however, workspace project changes are persisted. Keep in mind that this is still an experimental feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a combination of the above two. The initial workspace container will mount an emptyDir, however, the changes will be restored on workspace start and a backup is performed on workspace stop. This storage type also offers fast I/O (similar to the ephemeral mode) and workspace project changes are persisted.
```

> Synchronization is powered by ‘rsync’ (link:https://rsync.samba.org/[]) via SSH (link:https://www.openssh.com/[]) protocol. When a workspace is configured with this storage type, a special plugin is automatically added to the workspace configuration (link:https://github.com/che-incubator/workspace-data-sync/][source on GitHub]). This plugin will run ‘rsync’ command on workspace start to restore changes if they exist. When a workspace is stopped, it will send changes to the permanent storage. Rsync process can take some time, so a workspace will not start immediately like in case with a persistent and ephemeral storage. For relatively small projects the restore procedure is completed very fast and you will see project source files and folders immediately after Che Theia is initialized. If rsync takes longer time, the synchronization process will be shown in Che Theia UI status bar area. (link:https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/tree/master/extensions/eclipse-che-theia-file-sync-tracker][Extension in Che Theia repository]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Synchronization is powered by ‘rsync’ (link:https://rsync.samba.org/[]) via SSH (link:https://www.openssh.com/[]) protocol. When a workspace is configured with this storage type, the link:https://github.com/che-incubator/workspace-data-sync/[workspace-data-sync] plugin is automatically added to the workspace configuration. This plugin will run ‘rsync’ command on workspace start to restore changes if they exist. When a workspace is stopped, it will send changes to the permanent storage. The rsync process can take some time -  for relatively small projects the restore procedure is completed very fast and you will see project source files and folders immediately after Che Theia is initialized. If rsync takes a longer time, the synchronization process will be shown in Che Theia UI status bar area. (link:https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/tree/master/extensions/eclipse-che-theia-file-sync-tracker][Extension in Che Theia repository]).
```

 persistVolumes: ‘false’
----

=== Comparison table between I/O of Ephemeral (`emptyDir`) vs Persitent (link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/storage-classes/#aws-ebs[AWS EBS])

[cols="3", options="header"]
|===
|Command
|Ephemeral
|Persitent

|Clone  Eclipse Che
|0m 19s
|1m 26s

|Generate 1000 random files
|1m 12s
|44m 53s
|===

.Asynchronous storage (Experimental)

> This is a combination of the above two. The initial workspace container will mount an emptyDir, however, the changes will be restored on workspace start and a backup is performed on workspace stop. This storage type also offers fast I/O (similar to the ephemeral mode) and workspace project changes are persisted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a combination of the above two. The initial workspace container will mount an `emptyDir`, however, the changes will be restored on workspace start and a backup is performed on workspace stop. This storage type also offers fast I/O (similar to the ephemeral mode) and workspace project changes are persisted.
```

> Synchronization is powered by ‘rsync’ (link:https://rsync.samba.org/[]) via SSH (link:https://www.openssh.com/[]) protocol. When a workspace is configured with this storage type, the link:https://github.com/che-incubator/workspace-data-sync/[workspace-data-sync] plugin is automatically added to the workspace configuration. This plugin will run ‘rsync’ command on workspace start to restore changes if they exist. When a workspace is stopped, it will send changes to the permanent storage. The rsync process can take some time -  for relatively small projects the restore procedure is completed very fast and you will see project source files and folders immediately after Che Theia is initialized. If rsync takes a longer time, the synchronization process will be shown in Che Theia UI status bar area. (link:https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/tree/master/extensions/eclipse-che-theia-file-sync-tracker][Extension in Che Theia repository]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Synchronization is powered by link:https://rsync.samba.org/[`rsync`] via the link:https://www.openssh.com/[SSH] protocol. When a workspace is configured with an asynchronous storage type, the link:https://github.com/che-incubator/workspace-data-sync/[workspace-data-sync] plugin is automatically added to the workspace configuration. The plugin runs `rsync` command on workspace start to restore changes if they exist. When a workspace is stopped, it sends changes to the permanent storage. The `rsync` process can take some time -  for relatively small projects the restore procedure is completed fast and you can see project source files and folders immediately after Che Theia is initialized. If `rsync` takes a longer time, the synchronization process is shown in Che Theia UI status bar area. (link:https://github.com/eclipse/che-theia/tree/master/extensions/eclipse-che-theia-file-sync-tracker][Extension in Che Theia repository]).
```

`che.workspace.storage.preferred_type`: this configuration property defines a default value for storage type that clients like Dashboard should propose for users during workspace creation/update. The 'async' value not recommended as a default type since it's still experimental (e.g. `che.workspace.storage.preferred_type=persistent`)

> In User Dashboard you can choose Storage Type with switcher that available on *Create Custom Workspace* page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Storage Type switcher is available on the *Create Custom Workspace* page of the User Dashboard:
```

> image::troubleshooting/create-custom-ws-storage-type-2.png[link="{imagesdir}/troubleshooting/create-custom-ws-storage-type-2.png"]

Reviewer 3: Is this image really belongs to troubleshooting area? Maybe https://github.com/eclipse/che-docs/tree/master/src/main/images/workspaces is a bit better place?

Author: as you wish
